# Textedit url handling for GNU LilyPond in Gnome

These files and documentation are to aid in making point-and-click urls embedded in PDF files produced by GNU LilyPond more useable in Gnome. The script `textedit.py` differs in functionality only slightly from `lilypond-invoke-editor` which is distributed with LilyPond:

- it places the cursor at the character number in the url, rather than one character to the left;

- it focusses the editor window --- for this functionality, `xdotool` should be installed.

See notes below for using `lilypond-invoke-editor` with Emacs.

## Install

1. Put the file `textedit.py` somewhere in your `$PATH` and make it executable.

1. Install the desktop file by running

```bash
xdg-desktop-menu install ./textedit.desktop
xdg-mime default ltextedit.desktop x-scheme-handler/textedit
```

## Testing

1. `touch ~/.lytextedit.log && tail -f ~/.lytextedit.log`

1. Open a LilyPond-produced pdf in Evince.

1. Click a notehead.

## Configuration

The default configuration file will be created on first run if it doesn't exist.

```bash
[editor]
# executable name
editor = gvim
# command to pass to editor
command = --remote +:{line}:normal{start} "{file}"

[script]
# lots of info to the log file
verbose = true
# runs xdotool to focus the editor window
focus = false
```

This can be edited to launch your preferred editor. Fields available for the command option:

    - file
    - line
    - start
    - end

These are taken from the url embedded in the LilyPond pdf.

Example for using gedit:

```bash
[editor]
editor = gedit
command = "{file}" +{line}:{start}
```

Once everything is working properly, you can edit `~/.lytextedit.cfg`, changing `verbose = false`.

## Notes

On Ubuntu, AppArmor may prevent Evince from opening external links. In that case:

    $ sudo ln -s /etc/apparmor.d/usr.bin.evince /etc/apparmor.d/disable/usr.bin.evince
    $ sudo service apparmor restart

See [here][1] for further details. Thanks to Rutger Hofman on the lilypond-user list.

[1]: http://xubuntugeek.blogspot.nl/2012/05/fix-evince-is-unable-to-open-external.html

## Using with GNU Emacs in lilypond-mode

1. Put `textedit.desktop` into $HOME/.local/share/applications and edit `mimeapps.list` as described above.

2. Edit `textedit.desktop`, changing the line
       ```Exec=textedit.py %u```
   to
       ```Exec=lilypond-invoke-editor %u```

3. Create a file `lilypond-view-pdf` somewhere in your `$PATH` and make it executable, with the following content:

```bash
#!/bin/sh
evince $1 &
```

   Example:

        $ cd /usr/local/bin/
        $ sudo echo -e '#!/bin/sh\nevince $1 &\n' > lilypond-view-pdf
        $ sudo chmod a+x lilypond-view-pdf

4. Open Emacs.

   - Open a lilypond source file to automatically load lilypond-mode.
   - Issue the command `M-x customize-group`
   - On the prompt enter `LilyPond` and press return.
   - On the LilyPond customization group page scroll down to the entry `Lilypond Pdf Command`.
   - Enter `lilypond-view-pdf` in the edit field, click on the "State" button below "Lilypond Pdf Command" and select "Set for Current Session" and "Save for Future Sessions".

Thanks to Orm Finnendahl on the lilypond-user list for these instructions.

## TODO

- send to correct [g]vim instance - is there a way to discover if the file is open in which server?
- install properly with xdg-{mime,desktop-menu}
